README.md, before:

The script `slack2zulip.py` converts the Slack data export (see the sample
folder at the `slack/`, and see https://github.com/slackhq/slack-api-docs for
documentation)

## Rationale

`\exists` Slackland, Zulipland, Mattermostland. How does one engineer a tunnel
to ensure that each inhabitants can go bidirectionally, seamlessly? Currently,
this is done with Matrix.org^[1] bridge or Matterbridge.

This project tackles another use case: a full unidirectional migration from
Slack to Zulip.  Currently, only `users.json` and `channels.json` import are
possible via `zulip/zulip/api/integrations/slack` [3].

There are two approaches:
1. data-API-bridge-API-data. With this, assuming that Slack's API fully
   exposes all the data (users.json, messages.json, and channels.json), you
   still have to expose more of the Zulip's machinery.  And there is no
   low-level operation of putting the past timestamps via API.  This is a no-go.
2. data-data. This is the fastest route to reach prod state. Zulip already has a
   well-fleshed-out and well-tested data export/import. And Slack already has a
   data.zip export.

1. Still pending to be fleshed out with ActivityPub / Linked Data Notifications

### Funding Q3 2017

See https://rht.github.io/#donate.


## Term Mapping

Most parts of the structures can be mapped 1-to-1, with few exceptions:
1. Permission hierarchy
   in Slack[6]:
   * `is_primary_primary` = `is_owner` + can delete team.
   * `is_owner` = `is_admin` + can set (payments/billing, team authentication,
                  message and file retention, ...)
   * `is_admin` = `member` + can manage members + can manage channels + can handle
                maintenance functions for the team
   * `member` = can join public channel + can send message + can upload files + ..
   * `is_restricted` = can't set topic/purpose of a channel
   * `is_ultra_restricted` = TODO this possibly a custom setting construct, see https://github.com/slackhq/slack-api-docs/search?p=2&q=restricted&type=&utf8=%E2%9C%93
   There is also guest with access to one or several channels
   in Zulip:
   * `is_realm_admin`
   * `is_staff`: barely documented[7], but is functionally equivalent to a
     server admin, as seen in `require_server_admin` function in
     zerver/decorator.py
   * `is_api_super_user`: "Can send messages as other users for mirroring"[8]
   * `is_superuser`: is not used, the code uses `is_api_super_user`. See
     `zerver/views/messages.py`
   Slack's permission hierarchy is more granular.
   Currently the mapping is `is_owner` -> `is_realm_admin`, `is_admin` -> `is_staff`
2. Pins/stars security model
   Slack pins are stored in each channels.
   Zulip stars are known only to each users, stored in `zerver_usermessage`.
3. Streams/channels descriptions
   - Zulip has stream description
   - Slack has channel topic and purpose
4. user presence timestamps
   Zulip has `date_joined`, `last_reminder`, `last_login`.
   Slack has `status`.
5. user subscription in channel
   Slack: the timestamp when a user is subscribed to a channel is logged as a
   message in a channel, much like in IRC. This is not the case in Zulip so as
   not to pollute the thread with join/left announcement.
https://github.com/zulip/zulip/blob/2012913cc13332aa8c14825a042ea11b4b2cfa79/zerver/lib/actions.py#L533
6. "user agent" of a message
   Zulip has `populate_db`, `website`, and `API`
   Slack has none
7. Subscriptions
   Slack stores channel subscription in each channels, Zulip stores subscription
   flatly in zerver_subscription in a realm
8. Stream/channel creator
   Slack stores channel creator in channels.json. Zulip doesn't store stream
   creator.

## Usage

See https://my.slack.com/services/export for the step to export a Slack data.
To convert a slack data, let the zip file be `slack_data.zip`, then
`./slack2zulip.py slack_data.zip`

which outputs `zulip_data.zip`.

To deploy the data onto an existing fresh Zulip repo,
`./manage.py import zulip_data.zip`

## References

1. Zulip's export function https://github.com/zulip/zulip/blob/master/zerver/lib/export.py
2. Zulip's sample export data https://github.com/zulip/zulip/blob/master/zerver/tests/test_export.py
3. Zulip's existing users and channels import https://github.com/zulip/zulip/tree/master/api/integrations/slack
4. https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/220556107-Understand-Slack-data-exports
5. https://github.com/zulip/zulip/issues/908#issuecomment-247719383
6. https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/201314026-Roles-and-permissions-in-Slack
7. http://zulip.readthedocs.io/en/latest/analytics.html?highlight=staff
8. https://github.com/zulip/zulip/blob/2012913cc13332aa8c14825a042ea11b4b2cfa79/zerver/models.py#L266

Commit message:

Update info on Slack pins and stars

README.md, after:

The script `slack2zulip.py` converts the Slack data export (see the sample
folder at the `slack/`, and see https://github.com/slackhq/slack-api-docs for
documentation)

## Rationale

`\exists` Slackland, Zulipland, Mattermostland. How does one engineer a tunnel
to ensure that each inhabitants can go bidirectionally, seamlessly? Currently,
this is done with Matrix.org^[1] bridge or Matterbridge.

This project tackles another use case: a full unidirectional migration from
Slack to Zulip.  Currently, only `users.json` and `channels.json` import are
possible via `zulip/zulip/api/integrations/slack` [3].

There are two approaches:
1. data-API-bridge-API-data. With this, assuming that Slack's API fully
   exposes all the data (users.json, messages.json, and channels.json), you
   still have to expose more of the Zulip's machinery.  And there is no
   low-level operation of putting the past timestamps via API.  This is a no-go.
2. data-data. This is the fastest route to reach prod state. Zulip already has a
   well-fleshed-out and well-tested data export/import. And Slack already has a
   data.zip export.

1. Still pending to be fleshed out with ActivityPub / Linked Data Notifications

### Funding Q3 2017

See https://rht.github.io/#donate.


## Term Mapping

Most parts of the structures can be mapped 1-to-1, with few exceptions:
1. Permission hierarchy
   in Slack[6]:
   * `is_primary_primary` = `is_owner` + can delete team.
   * `is_owner` = `is_admin` + can set (payments/billing, team authentication,
                  message and file retention, ...)
   * `is_admin` = `member` + can manage members + can manage channels + can handle
                maintenance functions for the team
   * `member` = can join public channel + can send message + can upload files + ..
   * `is_restricted` = can't set topic/purpose of a channel
   * `is_ultra_restricted` = TODO this possibly a custom setting construct, see https://github.com/slackhq/slack-api-docs/search?p=2&q=restricted&type=&utf8=%E2%9C%93
   There is also guest with access to one or several channels
   in Zulip:
   * `is_realm_admin`
   * `is_staff`: barely documented[7], but is functionally equivalent to a
     server admin, as seen in `require_server_admin` function in
     zerver/decorator.py
   * `is_api_super_user`: "Can send messages as other users for mirroring"[8]
   * `is_superuser`: is not used, the code uses `is_api_super_user`. See
     `zerver/views/messages.py`
   Slack's permission hierarchy is more granular.
   Currently the mapping is `is_owner` -> `is_realm_admin`, `is_admin` -> `is_staff`
2. Pins/stars security model
   Slack pins are stored in each channels. Slack do have stars which are known
   only to the users.
   Zulip stars are known only to each users, stored in `zerver_usermessage`.
3. Streams/channels descriptions
   - Zulip has stream description
   - Slack has channel topic and purpose
4. user presence timestamps
   Zulip has `date_joined`, `last_reminder`, `last_login`.
   Slack has `status`.
5. user subscription in channel
   Slack: the timestamp when a user is subscribed to a channel is logged as a
   message in a channel, much like in IRC. This is not the case in Zulip so as
   not to pollute the thread with join/left announcement.
https://github.com/zulip/zulip/blob/2012913cc13332aa8c14825a042ea11b4b2cfa79/zerver/lib/actions.py#L533
6. "user agent" of a message
   Zulip has `populate_db`, `website`, and `API`
   Slack has none
7. Subscriptions
   Slack stores channel subscription in each channels, Zulip stores subscription
   flatly in zerver_subscription in a realm
8. Stream/channel creator
   Slack stores channel creator in channels.json. Zulip doesn't store stream
   creator.

## Usage

See https://my.slack.com/services/export for the step to export a Slack data.
To convert a slack data, let the zip file be `slack_data.zip`, then
`./slack2zulip.py slack_data.zip`

which outputs `zulip_data.zip`.

To deploy the data onto an existing fresh Zulip repo,
`./manage.py import zulip_data.zip`

## References

1. Zulip's export function https://github.com/zulip/zulip/blob/master/zerver/lib/export.py
2. Zulip's sample export data https://github.com/zulip/zulip/blob/master/zerver/tests/test_export.py
3. Zulip's existing users and channels import https://github.com/zulip/zulip/tree/master/api/integrations/slack
4. https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/220556107-Understand-Slack-data-exports
5. https://github.com/zulip/zulip/issues/908#issuecomment-247719383
6. https://get.slack.help/hc/en-us/articles/201314026-Roles-and-permissions-in-Slack
7. http://zulip.readthedocs.io/en/latest/analytics.html?highlight=staff
8. https://github.com/zulip/zulip/blob/2012913cc13332aa8c14825a042ea11b4b2cfa79/zerver/models.py#L266
